Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#668)
rmccue/Requests: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

So you want to contribute to Requests? Fantastic! There are a few rules you'll need to follow for all contributions.

(There are always exceptions to these rules. :) )

## Process

> 1. Ideally, start with an issue to check the need for a PR. It's possible that a feature may be rejected at an early stage, and it's better to find out before you write the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ideally, start with [opening an issue](https://github.com/WordPress/Requests/issues/new/choose) to check the need for a PR. It's possible that a feature may be rejected at an early stage, and it's better to find out before you write the code.
2. There may be an issue or PR open already. If so, please join the discussion in that issue or PR instead of opening a duplicate issue/PR.
```

> 2. Write the code. Small, atomic commits are preferred. Explain the motivation behind the change when needed.

Reviewer: Suggestion to add:
"_Please ensure any new features and bug fixes are accompanied by tests which fully cover the change._"

> 3. File a PR. If it isn't ready for merge yet, note that in the description. If your PR closes an existing issue, add "fixes #xxx" to the message, so that the issue will be closed when the PR is merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. File a PR and fill out the PR template. If the PR isn't ready for review/merge yet, open the PR as a draft. If your PR closes an existing issue, add "Fixes #xxx" to the message, so that the issue will be closed when the PR is merged.
```

> 4. If needed, iterate on the code until it is ready. This includes adding unit tests. When you're ready, comment that the PR is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If needed, iterate on the code until it is ready. When you're ready, mark the PR as "ready for review".
```

(providing the unit tests are mentioned in bullet 2)

> 5. A committer will review your code and offer you feedback.

Reviewer: Suggestion to add as a new bullet above this one:

_5. Automated checks will be run on all PRs via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/WordPress/Requests/actions). Please fix any issues identified by these automated checks promptly. It is unlikely your PR will be reviewed until the automated checks pass._

6. Update with the feedback as necessary.
7. PR will be merged.

Notes:

* All code needs to go through peer review. Committers may not merge their own PR.

> * PRs should **never be squashed or rebased**, even when merging. Keeping the history is important for tracking motivation behind changes later.

Reviewer: I'd like to suggest removing this line completely or, at least, adjusting it for more sane development practices.

There's nothing wrong with squashing small changes, like typos or CS fixes into the original commits which introduced them.
There's also nothing wrong with rebasing PRs.

What's important, is that the _reasoning_ behind changes is preserved and IMO that's best done with well written-up atomic commits, not by banning squashing or rebasing.

Also see: https://blog.developer.atlassian.com/stop-foxtrots-now/

## Compatibility

> All code in Requests must be compatible with PHP 5.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All code in Requests must be compatible with PHP 5.6 - PHP latest.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:
`All code in Requests must be compatible from PHP 5.6 up to the latest stable PHP version.`

Requests is used in WordPress, and hence is tied to [its compatibility][wp-requirements].

> Requests is also bound to not break backwards compatibility.
> In semantic versioning terms, this means we will be in the 2.x release cycle for the forseeable future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requests uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).
This means that backward-compatibility breaks are ONLY allowed in major releases and should be clearly annotated in the changelog.
Whenever a BC-break is introduced, it is good practice to always consider if a (temporary) measure can be put in place to smooth out the BC-break.
For example: don't just rename a function/method, but deprecate the old function and at the same time introduce the new function. This gives users of the library time to update their code and switch to the new function. Removing the deprecated function can then happen in the next major release.
```

Reviewer 2: The dash in `BC-break` is not consistent with `backward-compatibility breaks` (no dash between BC and break).

I'd suggest:
- introduce the acronym at first usage: `backward-compatibility (BC) break`
- use `BC break` instead of `BC-break`

Generally speaking, the goal of Requests is to provide an interface that smoothes the differences across various server setups.

> That means there shouldn't be any code relying on any extensions (even if they're common) unless we also provide a pure-PHP version (that is, we can use extensions to improve performance when available). Only two extensions are currently used: SPL, and cURL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That means there shouldn't be any code relying on any PHP extensions (even if they're common) unless we also provide a pure-PHP version (that is, we can use extensions to improve performance when available). Only two extensions are currently used: SPL, and cURL.
```

Reviewer 2: After discussing this, it seems referencing to SPL as an extension here will only lead to confusion, so I would suggest referencing to cURL as the only extension being used.

> SPL is always available from PHP 5.3 onwards.
> cURL is only used for better performance over sockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [SPL](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.spl) is always available from PHP 5.3 onwards.
* [cURL](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.curl) is only used for better performance over sockets.
```

Reviewer 2: Together with the previous suggestion, the SPL line should be removed.

[wp-requirements]: https://wordpress.org/about/requirements/

## Coding Style

Please follow the existing coding style. This project uses [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer)
to detect coding standard violations and apply automated fixes (whenever possible).  

> All files can be checked for coding standard violations by running `composer run checkcs`.

Reviewer: Suggest: add a blank line above line 42 as otherwise this will display as one huge long paragraph.
You could even consider adding bullets at the start of line 42 and 43.

Also - no need for the `run` in the commands, just using `composer checkcs` should work fine.

Any automatically applicable fixes can be applied by running `composer run fixcs`.

## Unit Tests

PRs should include unit tests for any changes.

> These are written in PHPUnit, and should be added to the file corresponding to the class they test (that is, tests for `library/Requests/Cookie.php` would be in `tests/Cookie.php`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests for this library are written using [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) in combination with the [PHPUnit Polyfills](https://github.com/Yoast/PHPUnit-Polyfills/).
This means that tests can be written for the latest version of PHPUnit (9.x at the time of writing) and still be run on all PHPUnit versions needed to test all supported PHP versions (PHPUnit 5.x - 9.x).

Tests should be added to the file corresponding to the class they test (that is, tests for `src/Cookie.php` would be in `tests/CookieTests.php`).
```

Just as a side-note: we intend to change this slightly in the near future, see #648.
The `CONTRIBUTING` doc can be updated when #648 will be actioned.

Where possible, features must be unit tested.
We aim for >90% coverage at all times.

> The master branch may drop below 90% if features are merged independently of their tests, but there is a hard limit of 85%. Release versions must have >90% coverage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default branch may drop below 90% if features are merged independently of their tests, but there is a hard limit of 85%. Release versions must have >90% coverage.
```

> For complex features by third-parties, PRs may be merged that drop coverage below the 90% threshold, with the intent of increasing tests back up in a subsequent PR.

Reviewer: If I'm honest, this comes across as a lot of waffle.... As the code coverage check is automated and run automatically on PR, we may as well drop this text.

Alternatively, it should be rewritten. If so, might be a good place to mention that code coverage is monitored via CodeCov.

### Prerequisites
- PHP >= 5.6
- Composer
- Python 3
- pip3

> - mitmproxy (`pip3 install mitmproxy`)

Reviewer: Could these all be linked to the respective tool install documentation pages ?

### Running the Tests
```bash
# Start the test server
PORT=8080 vendor/bin/start.sh
export "REQUESTS_TEST_HOST_HTTP=localhost:8080"

# Start the proxy server
PORT=9002 tests/utils/proxy/start.sh
PORT=9003 AUTH="test:pass" tests/utils/proxy/start.sh
export "REQUESTS_HTTP_PROXY=localhost:9002"
export "REQUESTS_HTTP_PROXY_AUTH=localhost:9003"
export "REQUESTS_HTTP_PROXY_AUTH_USER=test"
export "REQUESTS_HTTP_PROXY_AUTH_PASS=pass"

# Run the tests
composer test

# Stop the proxy server
PORT=9002 tests/utils/proxy/stop.sh
PORT=9003 tests/utils/proxy/stop.sh

# Stop the test server
vendor/bin/stop.sh

> ```

Reviewer: Suggestion: would it be an idea to save this as a script in a `bin` directory and to direct users to run that script instead ?

Question: will this work on Windows (considering this is a bash script) ?

## Licensing

> By contributing code to this repository, you agree to license your code for use under the [ISC License](https://github.com/rmccue/Requests/blob/master/LICENSE).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By contributing code to this repository, you agree to license your code for use under the [ISC License](https://github.com/rmccue/Requests/blob/stable/LICENSE).
```
